docs/actions/cert.md, before:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/cert.rb
-->

# cert


Alias for the `get_certificates` action




<p align="center">
  <img src="/img/actions/cert.png" width="250">
</p>

-------
<p align="center">
    <a href="#why">Why?</a> &bull;
    <a href="#usage">Usage</a> &bull;
    <a href="#how-does-it-work">How does it work?</a> &bull;
    <a href="#tips">Tips</a>
</p>

-------

<h5 align="center"><em>cert</em> is part of <a href="https://fastlane.tools">fastlane</a>: The easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps.</h5>

![/img/actions/cert.gif](/img/actions/cert.gif)

In the gif we used `cert && sigh`, which will first create an iOS code signing certificate and then a provisioning profile for your app if _cert_ succeeded.

# Usage

**Note**: It is recommended to use [_match_](/actions/match/) according to the [codesigning.guide](https://codesigning.guide) for generating and maintaining your certificates. Use _cert_ directly only if you want full control over what's going on and know more about codesigning.

```no-highlight
fastlane cert
```

This will check if any of the available signing certificates is installed on your local machine.

Only if a new certificate needs to be created, _cert_ will

- Create a new private key
- Create a new signing request
- Generate, downloads and installs the certificate
- Import all the generated files into your Keychain

_cert_ will never revoke your existing certificates. If you can't create any more certificates, _cert_ will raise an exception, which means, you have to revoke one of the existing certificates to make room for a new one.


You can pass your Apple ID:

```no-highlight
fastlane cert -u cert@krausefx.com
```

For a list of available commands run

```no-highlight
fastlane action cert
```

Keep in mind, there is no way for _cert_ to download existing certificates + private keys from the Apple Developer Portal, as the private key never leaves your computer.

## Environment Variables

Run `fastlane action cert` to get a list of all available environment variables.

## Use with [_sigh_](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/)

_cert_ becomes really interesting when used in [_fastlane_](https://fastlane.tools) in combination with [_sigh_](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/).

Update your `Fastfile` to contain the following code:

```ruby
lane :beta do
  cert
  sigh(force: true)
end
```

`force: true` will make sure to re-generate the provisioning profile on each run.
This will result in _sigh_ always using the correct signing certificate, which is installed on the local machine.


## How is my password stored?
_cert_ uses the [password manager](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/tree/master/credentials_manager) from _fastlane_. Take a look the [CredentialsManager README](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/credentials_manager/README.md) for more information.

# Tips

## Use 'ProvisionQL' for advanced Quick Look in Finder

Install [ProvisionQL](https://github.com/ealeksandrov/ProvisionQL).

It will show you `mobileprovision` files like this:
![img/actions/QuickLookScreenshot-Provision.png](/img/actions/QuickLookScreenshot-Provision.png)

<hr />


cert ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios
Author | @KrauseFx



## 3 Examples

```ruby
get_certificates
```

```ruby
cert # alias for "get_certificates"
```

```ruby
get_certificates(
  development: true,
  username: "user@email.com"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `development` | Create a development certificate instead of a distribution one | `false`
  `force` | Create a certificate even if an existing certificate exists | `false`
  `username` | Your Apple ID Username | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `team_id` | The ID of your Developer Portal team if you're in multiple teams | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `team_name` | The name of your Developer Portal team if you're in multiple teams | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `filename` | The filename of certificate to store | 
  `output_path` | The path to a directory in which all certificates and private keys should be stored | `.`
  `keychain_path` | Path to a custom keychain | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `keychain_password` | This might be required the first time you access certificates on a new mac. For the login/default keychain this is your account password | 
  `platform` | Set the provisioning profile's platform (ios, macos) | `ios`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />

## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action cert
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run cert
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run cert parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/cert.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>

Commit message:

[Bot] Update docs for latest fastlane release (actions.md, available-plugins.md) 🚀 (#837)

docs/actions/cert.md, after:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/cert.rb
-->

# cert


Alias for the `get_certificates` action




<p align="center">
  <img src="/img/actions/cert.png" width="250">
</p>

-------
<p align="center">
    <a href="#why">Why?</a> &bull;
    <a href="#usage">Usage</a> &bull;
    <a href="#how-does-it-work">How does it work?</a> &bull;
    <a href="#tips">Tips</a>
</p>

-------

<h5 align="center"><em>cert</em> is part of <a href="https://fastlane.tools">fastlane</a>: The easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps.</h5>

![/img/actions/cert.gif](/img/actions/cert.gif)

In the gif we used `cert && sigh`, which will first create an iOS code signing certificate and then a provisioning profile for your app if _cert_ succeeded.

# Usage

**Note**: It is recommended to use [_match_](/actions/match/) according to the [codesigning.guide](https://codesigning.guide) for generating and maintaining your certificates. Use _cert_ directly only if you want full control over what's going on and know more about codesigning.

```no-highlight
fastlane cert
```

This will check if any of the available signing certificates is installed on your local machine.

Only if a new certificate needs to be created, _cert_ will

- Create a new private key
- Create a new signing request
- Generate, downloads and installs the certificate
- Import all the generated files into your Keychain

_cert_ will never revoke your existing certificates. If you can't create any more certificates, _cert_ will raise an exception, which means, you have to revoke one of the existing certificates to make room for a new one.


You can pass your Apple ID:

```no-highlight
fastlane cert -u cert@krausefx.com
```

For a list of available commands run

```no-highlight
fastlane action cert
```

Keep in mind, there is no way for _cert_ to download existing certificates + private keys from the Apple Developer Portal, as the private key never leaves your computer.

## Environment Variables

Run `fastlane action cert` to get a list of all available environment variables.

## Use with [_sigh_](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/)

_cert_ becomes really interesting when used in [_fastlane_](https://fastlane.tools) in combination with [_sigh_](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/).

Update your `Fastfile` to contain the following code:

```ruby
lane :beta do
  cert
  sigh(force: true)
end
```

`force: true` will make sure to re-generate the provisioning profile on each run.
This will result in _sigh_ always using the correct signing certificate, which is installed on the local machine.


## How is my password stored?
_cert_ uses the [password manager](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/tree/master/credentials_manager) from _fastlane_. Take a look the [CredentialsManager README](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/credentials_manager/README.md) for more information.

# Tips

## Use 'ProvisionQL' for advanced Quick Look in Finder

Install [ProvisionQL](https://github.com/ealeksandrov/ProvisionQL).

It will show you `mobileprovision` files like this:
![img/actions/QuickLookScreenshot-Provision.png](/img/actions/QuickLookScreenshot-Provision.png)

<hr />


cert ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios
Author | @KrauseFx



## 3 Examples

```ruby
get_certificates
```

```ruby
cert # alias for "get_certificates"
```

```ruby
get_certificates(
  development: true,
  username: "user@email.com"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `development` | Create a development certificate instead of a distribution one | `false`
  `force` | Create a certificate even if an existing certificate exists | `false`
  `username` | Your Apple ID Username | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `team_id` | The ID of your Developer Portal team if you're in multiple teams | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `team_name` | The name of your Developer Portal team if you're in multiple teams | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `filename` | The filename of certificate to store | 
  `output_path` | The path to a directory in which all certificates and private keys should be stored | `.`
  `keychain_path` | Path to a custom keychain | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `keychain_password` | This might be required the first time you access certificates on a new mac. For the login/default keychain this is your account password | 
  `platform` | Set the provisioning profile's platform (ios, macos) | `ios`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Lane Variables

Actions can communicate with each other using a shared hash `lane_context`, that can be accessed in other actions, plugins or your lanes: `lane_context[SharedValues:XYZ]`. The `cert` action generates the following Lane Variables:

SharedValue | Description 
------------|-------------
  `SharedValues::CERT_FILE_PATH` | The path to the certificate
  `SharedValues::CERT_CERTIFICATE_ID` | The id of the certificate

To get more information check the [Lanes documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/#lane-context).
<hr />


## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action cert
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run cert
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run cert parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/cert.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
