docs/actions/commit_github_file.md, before:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/commit_github_file.rb
-->

# commit_github_file


This will commit a file directly on GitHub via the API




> Commits a file directly to GitHub. You must provide your GitHub Personal token (get one from [https://github.com/settings/tokens/new](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new)), the repository name and the relative file path from the root git project.<br>Out parameters provide the commit sha created, which can be used for later usage for examples such as releases, the direct download link and the full response JSON.<br>Documentation: [https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/contents/#create-a-file](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/contents/#create-a-file).


commit_github_file ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android, mac
Author | @tommeier
Returns | A hash containing all relevant information for this commit<br>Access things like 'html_url', 'sha', 'message'



## 1 Example

```ruby
response = commit_github_file(
  repository_name: "fastlane/fastlane",
  server_url: "https://api.github.com",
  api_token: ENV["GITHUB_TOKEN"],
  message: "Add my new file",
  branch: "master",
  path: "assets/my_new_file.xcarchive"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `repository_name` | The path to your repo, e.g. 'fastlane/fastlane' | 
  `server_url` | The server url. e.g. 'https://your.internal.github.host/api/v3' (Default: 'https://api.github.com') | `https://api.github.com`
  `api_token` | Personal API Token for GitHub - generate one at https://github.com/settings/tokens | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `branch` | The branch that the file should be committed on (default: master) | `master`
  `path` | The relative path to your file from project root e.g. assets/my_app.xcarchive | 
  `message` | The commit message. Defaults to the file name | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `secure` | Optionally disable secure requests (ssl_verify_peer) | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />

## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action commit_github_file
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run commit_github_file
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run commit_github_file parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/commit_github_file.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>

Commit message:

[Bot] Update docs for latest fastlane release (actions.md, available-plugins.md) 🚀 (#837)

docs/actions/commit_github_file.md, after:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/commit_github_file.rb
-->

# commit_github_file


This will commit a file directly on GitHub via the API




> Commits a file directly to GitHub. You must provide your GitHub Personal token (get one from [https://github.com/settings/tokens/new](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new)), the repository name and the relative file path from the root git project.<br>Out parameters provide the commit sha created, which can be used for later usage for examples such as releases, the direct download link and the full response JSON.<br>Documentation: [https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/contents/#create-a-file](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/contents/#create-a-file).


commit_github_file ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android, mac
Author | @tommeier
Returns | A hash containing all relevant information for this commit<br>Access things like 'html_url', 'sha', 'message'



## 1 Example

```ruby
response = commit_github_file(
  repository_name: "fastlane/fastlane",
  server_url: "https://api.github.com",
  api_token: ENV["GITHUB_TOKEN"],
  message: "Add my new file",
  branch: "master",
  path: "assets/my_new_file.xcarchive"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `repository_name` | The path to your repo, e.g. 'fastlane/fastlane' | 
  `server_url` | The server url. e.g. 'https://your.internal.github.host/api/v3' (Default: 'https://api.github.com') | `https://api.github.com`
  `api_token` | Personal API Token for GitHub - generate one at https://github.com/settings/tokens | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `branch` | The branch that the file should be committed on (default: master) | `master`
  `path` | The relative path to your file from project root e.g. assets/my_app.xcarchive | 
  `message` | The commit message. Defaults to the file name | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `secure` | Optionally disable secure requests (ssl_verify_peer) | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Lane Variables

Actions can communicate with each other using a shared hash `lane_context`, that can be accessed in other actions, plugins or your lanes: `lane_context[SharedValues:XYZ]`. The `commit_github_file` action generates the following Lane Variables:

SharedValue | Description 
------------|-------------
  `SharedValues::COMMIT_GITHUB_FILE_HTML_LINK` | Link to your committed file
  `SharedValues::COMMIT_GITHUB_FILE_SHA` | Commit SHA generated
  `SharedValues::COMMIT_GITHUB_FILE_JSON` | The whole commit JSON object response

To get more information check the [Lanes documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/#lane-context).
<hr />


## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action commit_github_file
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run commit_github_file
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run commit_github_file parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/commit_github_file.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
