docs/actions/gradle.md, before:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/gradle.rb
-->

# gradle


All gradle related actions, including building and testing your Android app




> Run `./gradlew tasks` to get a list of all available gradle tasks for your project


gradle ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android
Author | @KrauseFx, @lmirosevic
Returns | The output of running the gradle task



## 4 Examples

```ruby
gradle(
  task: "assemble",
  flavor: "WorldDomination",
  build_type: "Release"
)
```

```ruby
gradle(
  # ...

  properties: {
    "versionCode" => 100,
    "versionName" => "1.0.0",
    # ...
  }
)
```

You can use this to automatically [sign and zipalign](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing.html) your app:
```ruby
gradle(
  task: "assemble",
  build_type: "Release",
  print_command: false,
  properties: {
    "android.injected.signing.store.file" => "keystore.jks",
    "android.injected.signing.store.password" => "store_password",
    "android.injected.signing.key.alias" => "key_alias",
    "android.injected.signing.key.password" => "key_password",
  }
)
```

```ruby
# If you need to pass sensitive information through the `gradle` action, and don't want the generated command to be printed before it is run, you can suppress that:
gradle(
  # ...
  print_command: false
)
```

You can also suppress printing the output generated by running the generated Gradle command:
```ruby
gradle(
  # ...
  print_command_output: false
)
```

To pass any other CLI flags to gradle use:
```ruby
gradle(
  # ...

  flags: "--exitcode --xml file.xml"
)
```

```ruby
# Delete the build directory and generated APKs
gradle(
  task: "clean"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `task` | The gradle task you want to execute, e.g. `assemble` or `test`. For tasks such as `assembleMyFlavorRelease` you should use gradle(task: 'assemble', flavor: 'Myflavor', build_type: 'Release') | 
  `flavor` | The flavor that you want the task for, e.g. `MyFlavor`. If you are running the `assemble` task in a multi-flavor project, and you rely on Actions.lane_context[SharedValues::GRADLE_APK_OUTPUT_PATH] then you must specify a flavor here or else this value will be undefined | 
  `build_type` | The build type that you want the task for, e.g. `Release`. Useful for some tasks such as `assemble` | 
  `flags` | All parameter flags you want to pass to the gradle command, e.g. `--exitcode --xml file.xml` | 
  `project_dir` | The root directory of the gradle project | `.`
  `gradle_path` | The path to your `gradlew`. If you specify a relative path, it is assumed to be relative to the `project_dir` | 
  `properties` | Gradle properties to be exposed to the gradle script | 
  `system_properties` | Gradle system properties to be exposed to the gradle script | 
  `serial` | Android serial, which device should be used for this command | `''`
  `print_command` | Control whether the generated Gradle command is printed as output before running it (true/false) | `true`
  `print_command_output` | Control whether the output produced by given Gradle command is printed while running (true/false) | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />

## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action gradle
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run gradle
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run gradle parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/gradle.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>

Commit message:

[Bot] Update docs for latest fastlane release (actions.md, available-plugins.md) 🚀 (#837)

docs/actions/gradle.md, after:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/gradle.rb
-->

# gradle


All gradle related actions, including building and testing your Android app




> Run `./gradlew tasks` to get a list of all available gradle tasks for your project


gradle ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android
Author | @KrauseFx, @lmirosevic
Returns | The output of running the gradle task



## 4 Examples

```ruby
gradle(
  task: "assemble",
  flavor: "WorldDomination",
  build_type: "Release"
)
```

```ruby
gradle(
  # ...

  properties: {
    "versionCode" => 100,
    "versionName" => "1.0.0",
    # ...
  }
)
```

You can use this to automatically [sign and zipalign](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing.html) your app:
```ruby
gradle(
  task: "assemble",
  build_type: "Release",
  print_command: false,
  properties: {
    "android.injected.signing.store.file" => "keystore.jks",
    "android.injected.signing.store.password" => "store_password",
    "android.injected.signing.key.alias" => "key_alias",
    "android.injected.signing.key.password" => "key_password",
  }
)
```

```ruby
# If you need to pass sensitive information through the `gradle` action, and don't want the generated command to be printed before it is run, you can suppress that:
gradle(
  # ...
  print_command: false
)
```

You can also suppress printing the output generated by running the generated Gradle command:
```ruby
gradle(
  # ...
  print_command_output: false
)
```

To pass any other CLI flags to gradle use:
```ruby
gradle(
  # ...

  flags: "--exitcode --xml file.xml"
)
```

```ruby
# Delete the build directory and generated APKs
gradle(
  task: "clean"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `task` | The gradle task you want to execute, e.g. `assemble` or `test`. For tasks such as `assembleMyFlavorRelease` you should use gradle(task: 'assemble', flavor: 'Myflavor', build_type: 'Release') | 
  `flavor` | The flavor that you want the task for, e.g. `MyFlavor`. If you are running the `assemble` task in a multi-flavor project, and you rely on Actions.lane_context[SharedValues::GRADLE_APK_OUTPUT_PATH] then you must specify a flavor here or else this value will be undefined | 
  `build_type` | The build type that you want the task for, e.g. `Release`. Useful for some tasks such as `assemble` | 
  `flags` | All parameter flags you want to pass to the gradle command, e.g. `--exitcode --xml file.xml` | 
  `project_dir` | The root directory of the gradle project | `.`
  `gradle_path` | The path to your `gradlew`. If you specify a relative path, it is assumed to be relative to the `project_dir` | 
  `properties` | Gradle properties to be exposed to the gradle script | 
  `system_properties` | Gradle system properties to be exposed to the gradle script | 
  `serial` | Android serial, which device should be used for this command | `''`
  `print_command` | Control whether the generated Gradle command is printed as output before running it (true/false) | `true`
  `print_command_output` | Control whether the output produced by given Gradle command is printed while running (true/false) | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Lane Variables

Actions can communicate with each other using a shared hash `lane_context`, that can be accessed in other actions, plugins or your lanes: `lane_context[SharedValues:XYZ]`. The `gradle` action generates the following Lane Variables:

SharedValue | Description 
------------|-------------
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_APK_OUTPUT_PATH` | The path to the newly generated apk file. Undefined in a multi-variant assemble scenario
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_ALL_APK_OUTPUT_PATHS` | When running a multi-variant `assemble`, the array of signed apk's that were generated
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_FLAVOR` | The flavor, e.g. `MyFlavor`
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_BUILD_TYPE` | The build type, e.g. `Release`
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_AAB_OUTPUT_PATH` | The path to the most recent Android app bundle
  `SharedValues::GRADLE_ALL_AAB_OUTPUT_PATHS` | The paths to the most recent Android app bundles

To get more information check the [Lanes documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/#lane-context).
<hr />


## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action gradle
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run gradle
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run gradle parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/gradle.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
