<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane.
-->

# run_tests


Easily run tests of your iOS app (via _scan_)




> More information: https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/tree/master/scan


run_tests |
-----|----
Supported platforms | ios, mac
Author | @KrauseFx



## 6 Examples

```ruby
run_tests
```

```ruby
scan # alias for "run_tests"
```

```ruby
run_tests(
  workspace: "App.xcworkspace",
  scheme: "MyTests",
  clean: false
)
```

```ruby
# Build For Testing
run_tests(
   derived_data_path: "my_folder",
   build_for_testing: true
)
```

```ruby
# run tests using derived data from prev. build
run_tests(
   derived_data_path: "my_folder",
   test_without_building: true
)
```

```ruby
# or run it from an existing xctestrun package
run_tests(
   xctestrun: "/path/to/mytests.xctestrun"
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description
----|------------
  `workspace` | Path to the workspace file
  `project` | Path to the project file
  `device` | The name of the simulator type you want to run tests on (e.g. 'iPhone 6')
  `toolchain` | The toolchain that should be used for building the application (e.g. com.apple.dt.toolchain.Swift_2_3, org.swift.30p620160816a)
  `devices` | Array of devices to run the tests on (e.g. ['iPhone 6', 'iPad Air'])
  `scheme` | The project's scheme. Make sure it's marked as `Shared`
  `clean` | Should the project be cleaned before building it?
  `code_coverage` | Should code coverage be generated? (Xcode 7 and up)
  `address_sanitizer` | Should the address sanitizer be turned on?
  `thread_sanitizer` | Should the thread sanitizer be turned on?
  `skip_build` | Should debug build be skipped before test build?
  `output_directory` | The directory in which all reports will be stored
  `output_style` | Define how the output should look like (standard, basic, rspec or raw)
  `output_types` | Comma separated list of the output types (e.g. html, junit, json-compilation-database)
  `output_files` | Comma separated list of the output files, corresponding to the types provided by :output_types (order should match). If specifying an output type of json-compilation-database with :use_clang_report_name enabled, that option will take precedence
  `buildlog_path` | The directory where to store the raw log
  `include_simulator_logs` | If the logs generated by the app (e.g. using NSLog, perror, etc.) in the Simulator should be written to the output_directory
  `formatter` | A custom xcpretty formatter to use
  `test_without_building` | Test without building, requires a derived data path
  `build_for_testing` | Build for testing only, does not run tests
  `xctestrun` | Run tests using the provided .xctestrun file
  `derived_data_path` | The directory where build products and other derived data will go
  `result_bundle` | Location of the Xcode result bundle
  `sdk` | The SDK that should be used for building the application
  `open_report` | Should the HTML report be opened when tests are completed?
  `configuration` | The configuration to use when building the app. Defaults to 'Release'
  `destination` | Use only if you're a pro, use the other options instead
  `xcargs` | Pass additional arguments to xcodebuild. Be sure to quote the setting names and values e.g. OTHER_LDFLAGS="-ObjC -lstdc++"
  `xcconfig` | Use an extra XCCONFIG file to build your app
  `only_testing` | Array of strings matching Test Bundle/Test Suite/Test Cases to run
  `skip_testing` | Array of strings matching Test Bundle/Test Suite/Test Cases to skip
  `slack_url` | Create an Incoming WebHook for your Slack group to post results there
  `slack_channel` | #channel or @username
  `slack_message` | The message included with each message posted to slack
  `skip_slack` | Don't publish to slack, even when an URL is given
  `slack_only_on_failure` | Only post on Slack if the tests fail
  `use_clang_report_name` | Generate the json compilation database with clang naming convention (compile_commands.json)
  `custom_report_file_name` | [DEPRECATED!] Use --output_files - Sets custom full report file name when generating a single report
  `fail_build` | Should this step stop the build if the tests fail? Set this to false if you're using trainer




<hr />
To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action run_tests
```

<a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/run_tests.rb" target="_blank">View source code</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
