docs/actions/s3.md, before:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/s3.rb
-->

# s3


Generates a plist file and uploads all to AWS S3

> Please use the `aws_s3` plugin instead.<br>Install using `fastlane add_plugin aws_s3`.


> Upload a new build to Amazon S3 to distribute the build to beta testers.<br>Works for both Ad Hoc and Enterprise signed applications. This step will generate the necessary HTML, plist, and version files for you.<br>It is recommended to **not** store the AWS access keys in the `Fastfile`. The uploaded `version.json` file provides an easy way for apps to poll if a new update is available.


s3 ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios
Author | @joshdholtz



## 2 Examples

```ruby
s3
```

```ruby
s3(
  # All of these are used to make Shenzhen's `ipa distribute:s3` command
  access_key: ENV["S3_ACCESS_KEY"],     # Required from user.
  secret_access_key: ENV["S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"], # Required from user.
  bucket: ENV["S3_BUCKET"],   # Required from user.
  ipa: "AppName.ipa",         # Optional is you use `ipa` to build
  dsym: "AppName.app.dSYM.zip",         # Optional is you use `ipa` to build
  path: "v{CFBundleShortVersionString}_b{CFBundleVersion}/", # This is actually the default.
  upload_metadata: true,      # Upload version.json, plist and HTML. Set to false to skip uploading of these files.
  version_file_name: "app_version.json",# Name of the file to upload to S3. Defaults to "version.json"
  version_template_path: "path/to/erb"  # Path to an ERB to configure the structure of the version JSON file
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `ipa` | .ipa file for the build  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `dsym` | zipped .dsym package for the build  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `upload_metadata` | Upload relevant metadata for this build | `true`
  `plist_template_path` | plist template path | 
  `plist_file_name` | uploaded plist filename | 
  `html_template_path` | html erb template path | 
  `html_file_name` | uploaded html filename | 
  `version_template_path` | version erb template path | 
  `version_file_name` | uploaded version filename | 
  `access_key` | AWS Access Key ID  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `secret_access_key` | AWS Secret Access Key  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `bucket` | AWS bucket name | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `region` | AWS region (for bucket creation)  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `path` | S3 'path'. Values from Info.plist will be substituted for keys wrapped in {}   | `v{CFBundleShortVersionString}_b{CFBundleVersion}/`
  `source` | Optional source directory e.g. ./build  | 
  `acl` | Uploaded object permissions e.g public_read (default), private, public_read_write, authenticated_read  | `public_read`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />

## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action s3
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run s3
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run s3 parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/s3.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>

Commit message:

[Bot] Update docs for latest fastlane release (actions.md, available-plugins.md) 🚀 (#837)

docs/actions/s3.md, after:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/s3.rb
-->

# s3


Generates a plist file and uploads all to AWS S3

> Please use the `aws_s3` plugin instead.<br>Install using `fastlane add_plugin aws_s3`.


> Upload a new build to Amazon S3 to distribute the build to beta testers.<br>Works for both Ad Hoc and Enterprise signed applications. This step will generate the necessary HTML, plist, and version files for you.<br>It is recommended to **not** store the AWS access keys in the `Fastfile`. The uploaded `version.json` file provides an easy way for apps to poll if a new update is available.


s3 ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios
Author | @joshdholtz



## 2 Examples

```ruby
s3
```

```ruby
s3(
  # All of these are used to make Shenzhen's `ipa distribute:s3` command
  access_key: ENV["S3_ACCESS_KEY"],     # Required from user.
  secret_access_key: ENV["S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"], # Required from user.
  bucket: ENV["S3_BUCKET"],   # Required from user.
  ipa: "AppName.ipa",         # Optional is you use `ipa` to build
  dsym: "AppName.app.dSYM.zip",         # Optional is you use `ipa` to build
  path: "v{CFBundleShortVersionString}_b{CFBundleVersion}/", # This is actually the default.
  upload_metadata: true,      # Upload version.json, plist and HTML. Set to false to skip uploading of these files.
  version_file_name: "app_version.json",# Name of the file to upload to S3. Defaults to "version.json"
  version_template_path: "path/to/erb"  # Path to an ERB to configure the structure of the version JSON file
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `ipa` | .ipa file for the build  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `dsym` | zipped .dsym package for the build  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `upload_metadata` | Upload relevant metadata for this build | `true`
  `plist_template_path` | plist template path | 
  `plist_file_name` | uploaded plist filename | 
  `html_template_path` | html erb template path | 
  `html_file_name` | uploaded html filename | 
  `version_template_path` | version erb template path | 
  `version_file_name` | uploaded version filename | 
  `access_key` | AWS Access Key ID  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `secret_access_key` | AWS Secret Access Key  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `bucket` | AWS bucket name | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `region` | AWS region (for bucket creation)  | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `path` | S3 'path'. Values from Info.plist will be substituted for keys wrapped in {}   | `v{CFBundleShortVersionString}_b{CFBundleVersion}/`
  `source` | Optional source directory e.g. ./build  | 
  `acl` | Uploaded object permissions e.g public_read (default), private, public_read_write, authenticated_read  | `public_read`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Lane Variables

Actions can communicate with each other using a shared hash `lane_context`, that can be accessed in other actions, plugins or your lanes: `lane_context[SharedValues:XYZ]`. The `s3` action generates the following Lane Variables:

SharedValue | Description 
------------|-------------
  `SharedValues::S3_IPA_OUTPUT_PATH` | Direct HTTP link to the uploaded ipa file
  `SharedValues::S3_DSYM_OUTPUT_PATH` | Direct HTTP link to the uploaded dsym file
  `SharedValues::S3_PLIST_OUTPUT_PATH` | Direct HTTP link to the uploaded plist file
  `SharedValues::S3_HTML_OUTPUT_PATH` | Direct HTTP link to the uploaded HTML file
  `SharedValues::S3_VERSION_OUTPUT_PATH` | Direct HTTP link to the uploaded Version file

To get more information check the [Lanes documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/#lane-context).
<hr />


## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action s3
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run s3
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run s3 parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/s3.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
