docs/actions/ssh.md, before:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/ssh.rb
-->

# ssh


Allows remote command execution using ssh




> Lets you execute remote commands via ssh using username/password or ssh-agent. If one of the commands in command-array returns non 0, it fails.


ssh ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android, mac
Author | @hjanuschka



## 1 Example

```ruby
ssh(
  host: "dev.januschka.com",
  username: "root",
  commands: [
    "date",
    "echo 1 > /tmp/file1"
  ]
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `username` | Username | 
  `password` | Password | 
  `host` | Hostname | 
  `port` | Port | `22`
  `commands` | Commands | 
  `log` | Log commands and output | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />

## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action ssh
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run ssh
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run ssh parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/ssh.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>

Commit message:

[Bot] Update docs for latest fastlane release (actions.md, available-plugins.md) 🚀 (#837)

docs/actions/ssh.md, after:

<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/ssh.rb
-->

# ssh


Allows remote command execution using ssh




> Lets you execute remote commands via ssh using username/password or ssh-agent. If one of the commands in command-array returns non 0, it fails.


ssh ||
---|---
Supported platforms | ios, android, mac
Author | @hjanuschka



## 1 Example

```ruby
ssh(
  host: "dev.januschka.com",
  username: "root",
  commands: [
    "date",
    "echo 1 > /tmp/file1"
  ]
)
```





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `username` | Username | 
  `password` | Password | 
  `host` | Hostname | 
  `port` | Port | `22`
  `commands` | Commands | 
  `log` | Log commands and output | `true`

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Lane Variables

Actions can communicate with each other using a shared hash `lane_context`, that can be accessed in other actions, plugins or your lanes: `lane_context[SharedValues:XYZ]`. The `ssh` action generates the following Lane Variables:

SharedValue | Description 
------------|-------------
  `SharedValues::SSH_STDOUT_VALUE` | Holds the standard output of all commands
  `SharedValues::SSH_STDERR_VALUE` | Holds the standard error of all commands

To get more information check the [Lanes documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/#lane-context).
<hr />


## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action ssh
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run ssh
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run ssh parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/ssh.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
