docs/codesigning/xcode-project.md, before:

# Setting up your Xcode Project

# Xcode 9 and up

Additionally to the instructions of Xcode 8, you can now also explictly define what provisioning profile to use for which target. _fastlane_ will automatically detect those settings if you use _match_, or will try to fetch it from your Xcode project if possible. 

If you don't use _match_, we recommend defining what provisioning profiles to use in your `Fastfile`:

```ruby
lane :beta do
  gym(
    export_method: "app-store",
    export_options: {
      provisioningProfiles: { 
        "com.example.bundleid": "Provisioning Profile Name",
        "com.example.bundleid2": "Provisioning Profile Name 2"
      }
    }
  )
end
```

# Xcode 8 and up

With Xcode 8 you can set a provisioning profile name for each of your targets instead of a provisioning profile UUID. By doing so, Xcode automatically selects the latest provisioning profile matching its name. This way you don't have to update your Xcode project, every time you re-generate your provisioning profile (e.g. when adding a new device)

You can now specify which provisioning profile to use in the `General` tab after disabling `Automatically manage signing`.

<img src="/img/codesigning/ProvisioningProfileSelectionNew.png" width=500 />

Alternatively you can also specify the provisioning profile in the `Build Settings` tab.

<img src="/img/codesigning/ProvisioningProfileSelectionManual.png" width=500 />

If your provisioning profile is not listed in the drop down, there might be a few reasons:

- It doesn't match the bundle identifier of the target
- The associated certificate or its private key is not installed on the local machine
- The provisioning profile is not installed on the local machine

Check out [Debugging codesigning issues](troubleshooting.md) for more information on how to debug signing issues.

### Build settings

Previously you could specify the UUID of the provisioning profile using the `PROVISIONING_PROFILE` Xcode settings property, with Xcode 8 you specify it using the `PROVISIONING_PROFILE_SPECIFIER` instead:

```no-highlight
DEVELOPMENT_TEAM = N8XAAASEU2;
PROVISIONING_PROFILE_SPECIFIER = "match AppStore me.themoji.app.release";
```

It is recommended to select the provisioning profile in the `General` tab in your Xcode project, so Xcode will automatically set the values mentioned above for you.

#### Set using environment variable

You could pass the profile specifier via environment variables too (See Xcode 7 approach below), however in most cases it's enough to define it statically in your project, per target, since usually neither your Team ID, nor the provisioning profile change.

If you're using [match](https://fastlane.tools/match) the following environment variables are being set for you:

```
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
|                                       Installed Provisioning Profile                                        |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Parameter           | Environment Variable                           | Value                                |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| App Identifier      |                                                | me.themoji.release                   |
| Type                |                                                | appstore                             |
| Profile UUID        | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore                  | 22a19b3a-7cf6-4997-95f2-9cbb4d33fe7e |
| Profile Name        | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore_profile-name     | match AppStore me.themoji.release    |
| Development Team ID | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore_team-id          | N8XAAASEU2                           |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

Check out the Xcode 7 section on how to update build settings using environment variables.

#### Using `match development` or Xcode Automatic Provisioning

<img src="/img/codesigning/XcodeAutomaticallyManageSigning.png" width=300 />

Apple's Automatic Provisioning in Xcode 8 will automatically generate a private key, development certificate, and managed development provisioning profile for each computer used to build a project. Since Xcode can auto-generate these for you, there is no need to share them between teammates' computers. As such, when using Xcode Automatic Provisioning, there is no need to use `match development` to keep development keys, certificates, and provisioning profiles in sync.

If you are already using _match_ to manage development code signing, Automatic Provisioning will use the _match_-generated key and certificate. However, Xcode will create and manage its own provisioning profile and will not use the _match_-generated profile.

#### `match appstore` and Xcode Automatic Provisioning

Xcode Automatic Provisioning doesn't sync your private keys across machines (if you have multiple computers or share them between teammates). To securely store your private key and have access to it from all your devices, use `match appstore` or `match adhoc`. This will sync your keys, certificates and provisioning profiles via git, encrypted using OpenSSL.

# Xcode 7 and lower

**Note**: This approach is deprecated with Xcode 8

If you use `Automatic` value for your provisioning profile, Xcode sometimes selects the wrong profile, resulting in code signing errors at a later point.

Instead it is recommended to specify a specific provisioning profile, which can only be done using the UUID (in Xcode 7).

Since it is not recommended to update the project file, every time you update your provisioning profile, you can pass the UUID via environment variables.

To do so, open your target settings, open the dropdown for `Provisioning Profile` and select `Other`:

<img src="/img/codesigning/XcodeProjectSettings.png" width="700" />

Using the `$(...)` notation, Xcode will use the provisioning profile matching the UUID, and fallback to `Automatic` if it's not provided.

If you use [fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) you don't have to do any extra work, since the environment variable for the latest profile are automatically set by [match](https://fastlane.tools/match)

```ruby
lane :beta do
  match(type: "adhoc")
  gym
end
```

You can also manually set the environment variable using

```ruby
lane :beta do
  ENV["PROVISIONING_PROFILE_TARGET1"] = "b01c39c9-1b4a-412e-9ae2-3087ee9ea9d3"
  gym
end
```

Commit message:

Improve code signing docs for Xcode 9 (#369)
* Improve code signing docs for Xcode 9

* Making things more clear

docs/codesigning/xcode-project.md, after:

# Setting up your Xcode Project

# Xcode 9 and up

In most cases, _fastlane_ will work out of the box with Xcode 9 if you selected manual code signing, and chose a provisioning profile name for each of your targets ([see Xcode 8 section](#xcode-8)).

If you don't use _match_, we recommend defining a mapping of app target to provisioning profile in your `Fastfile`. By defining those profiles, you can guarantee reproducible builds every time you run it.

```ruby
lane :beta do
  gym(
    export_method: "app-store",
    export_options: {
      provisioningProfiles: { 
        "com.example.bundleid": "Provisioning Profile Name",
        "com.example.bundleid2": "Provisioning Profile Name 2"
      }
    }
  )
end
```

# Xcode 8

With Xcode 8 you can set a provisioning profile name for each of your targets instead of a provisioning profile UUID. By doing so, Xcode automatically selects the latest provisioning profile matching its name. This way you don't have to update your Xcode project, every time you re-generate your provisioning profile (e.g. when adding a new device)

You can now specify which provisioning profile to use in the `General` tab after disabling `Automatically manage signing`.

<img src="/img/codesigning/ProvisioningProfileSelectionNew.png" width=500 />

Alternatively you can also specify the provisioning profile in the `Build Settings` tab.

<img src="/img/codesigning/ProvisioningProfileSelectionManual.png" width=500 />

If your provisioning profile is not listed in the drop down, there might be a few reasons:

- It doesn't match the bundle identifier of the target
- The associated certificate or its private key is not installed on the local machine
- The provisioning profile is not installed on the local machine

Check out [Debugging codesigning issues](troubleshooting.md) for more information on how to debug signing issues.

### Build settings

Previously you could specify the UUID of the provisioning profile using the `PROVISIONING_PROFILE` Xcode settings property, with Xcode 8 you specify it using the `PROVISIONING_PROFILE_SPECIFIER` instead:

```no-highlight
DEVELOPMENT_TEAM = N8XAAASEU2;
PROVISIONING_PROFILE_SPECIFIER = "match AppStore me.themoji.app.release";
```

It is recommended to select the provisioning profile in the `General` tab in your Xcode project, so Xcode will automatically set the values mentioned above for you.

#### Set using environment variable

You could pass the profile specifier via environment variables too (See Xcode 7 approach below), however in most cases it's enough to define it statically in your project, per target, since usually neither your Team ID, nor the provisioning profile change.

If you're using [match](https://fastlane.tools/match) the following environment variables are being set for you:

```
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
|                                       Installed Provisioning Profile                                        |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Parameter           | Environment Variable                           | Value                                |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
| App Identifier      |                                                | me.themoji.release                   |
| Type                |                                                | appstore                             |
| Profile UUID        | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore                  | 22a19b3a-7cf6-4997-95f2-9cbb4d33fe7e |
| Profile Name        | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore_profile-name     | match AppStore me.themoji.release    |
| Development Team ID | sigh_me.themoji.beta_appstore_team-id          | N8XAAASEU2                           |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

Check out the Xcode 7 section on how to update build settings using environment variables.

#### Using `match development` or Xcode Automatic Provisioning

<img src="/img/codesigning/XcodeAutomaticallyManageSigning.png" width=300 />

Apple's Automatic Provisioning in Xcode 8 will automatically generate a private key, development certificate, and managed development provisioning profile for each computer used to build a project. Since Xcode can auto-generate these for you, there is no need to share them between teammates' computers. As such, when using Xcode Automatic Provisioning, there is no need to use `match development` to keep development keys, certificates, and provisioning profiles in sync.

If you are already using _match_ to manage development code signing, Automatic Provisioning will use the _match_-generated key and certificate. However, Xcode will create and manage its own provisioning profile and will not use the _match_-generated profile.

#### `match appstore` and Xcode Automatic Provisioning

Xcode Automatic Provisioning doesn't sync your private keys across machines (if you have multiple computers or share them between teammates). To securely store your private key and have access to it from all your devices, use `match appstore` or `match adhoc`. This will sync your keys, certificates and provisioning profiles via git, encrypted using OpenSSL.

# Xcode 7 and lower

**Note**: This approach is deprecated with Xcode 8

If you use `Automatic` value for your provisioning profile, Xcode sometimes selects the wrong profile, resulting in code signing errors at a later point.

Instead it is recommended to specify a specific provisioning profile, which can only be done using the UUID (in Xcode 7).

Since it is not recommended to update the project file, every time you update your provisioning profile, you can pass the UUID via environment variables.

To do so, open your target settings, open the dropdown for `Provisioning Profile` and select `Other`:

<img src="/img/codesigning/XcodeProjectSettings.png" width="700" />

Using the `$(...)` notation, Xcode will use the provisioning profile matching the UUID, and fallback to `Automatic` if it's not provided.

If you use [fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) you don't have to do any extra work, since the environment variable for the latest profile are automatically set by [match](https://fastlane.tools/match)

```ruby
lane :beta do
  match(type: "adhoc")
  gym
end
```

You can also manually set the environment variable using

```ruby
lane :beta do
  ENV["PROVISIONING_PROFILE_TARGET1"] = "b01c39c9-1b4a-412e-9ae2-3087ee9ea9d3"
  gym
end
```
