<!--
This file is auto-generated and will be re-generated every time the docs are updated.
To modify it, go to its source at https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/download_universal_apk_from_google_play.rb
-->

# download_universal_apk_from_google_play


Download the Universal APK of a given version code from the Google Play Console




> Download the universal APK of a given version code from the Google Play Console.<br><br>This uses _fastlane_ `supply` (and the `AndroidPublisher` Google API) to download the Universal APK<br>generated by Google after you uploaded an `.aab` bundle to the Play Console.<br><br>See https://developers.google.com/android-publisher/api-ref/rest/v3/generatedapks/list<br>


download_universal_apk_from_google_play ||
---|---
Supported platforms | android
Author | @Automattic
Returns | The path to the downloaded Universal APK. The action will raise an exception if it failed to find or download the APK in Google Play





## Parameters

Key | Description | Default
----|-------------|--------
  `package_name` | The package name of the application to use | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `version_code` | The versionCode for which to download the generated APK | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `json_key` | The path to a file containing service account JSON, used to authenticate with Google | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `json_key_data` | The raw service account JSON data used to authenticate with Google | [*](#parameters-legend-dynamic)
  `root_url` | Root URL for the Google Play API. The provided URL will be used for API calls in place of https://www.googleapis.com/ | 
  `timeout` | Timeout for read, open, and send (in seconds) | `300`
  `destination` | The path on disk where to download the Generated Universal APK | 
  `certificate_sha256_hash` | The SHA256 hash of the signing key for which to download the Universal, Code-Signed APK for. Use 'xx:xx:xx:…' format (32 hex bytes separated by colons), as printed by `keytool -list -keystore <keystorefile>`. Only useful to provide if you have multiple signing keys configured on GPC, to specify which generated APK to download | 

<em id="parameters-legend-dynamic">* = default value is dependent on the user's system</em>


<hr />



## Documentation

To show the documentation in your terminal, run
```no-highlight
fastlane action download_universal_apk_from_google_play
```

<hr />

## CLI

It is recommended to add the above action into your `Fastfile`, however sometimes you might want to run one-offs. To do so, you can run the following command from your terminal

```no-highlight
fastlane run download_universal_apk_from_google_play
```

To pass parameters, make use of the `:` symbol, for example

```no-highlight
fastlane run download_universal_apk_from_google_play parameter1:"value1" parameter2:"value2"
```

It's important to note that the CLI supports primitive types like integers, floats, booleans, and strings. Arrays can be passed as a comma delimited string (e.g. `param:"1,2,3"`). Hashes are not currently supported.

It is recommended to add all _fastlane_ actions you use to your `Fastfile`.

<hr />

## Source code

This action, just like the rest of _fastlane_, is fully open source, <a href="https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/fastlane/lib/fastlane/actions/download_universal_apk_from_google_play.rb" target="_blank">view the source code on GitHub</a>

<hr />

<a href="/actions/"><b>Back to actions</b></a>
