docs/index.md, before:

![img/fastlane_text.png](img/fastlane_text.png)

fastlane
============

[![Twitter: @Fastlane1ols](https://img.shields.io/badge/contact-@FastlaneTools-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://twitter.com/FastlaneTools)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/fastlane.svg?style=flat)](http://rubygems.org/gems/fastlane)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/fastlane/fastlane/master.svg?style=flat)](https://circleci.com/gh/fastlane/fastlane)

`fastlane` is **the** tool to release your iOS and Android app :rocket: It handles all tedious tasks, like generating screenshots, dealing with code signing, and releasing your application.

TODO: Alternative

`fastlane` is a tool for iOS, Mac, and Android developers to automate tedious tasks like generating screenshots, dealing with provisioning profiles, and releasing your application.

You create a so-called `Fastfile` in your repository, that defines how your beta or App Store release process:

```ruby
lane :beta do
  increment_build_number
  gym                       # Build your app
  testflight                # Upload to TestFlight
end

lane :appstore do
  snapshot                  # Generate screenshots for the App Store
  gym                       # Build your app
  deliver                   # Upload the screenshots and the binary to iTunes
  slack                     # Let your team-mates know the new version is live
end
```

You just defined 2 different lanes, one for beta deployment, one for App Store. To release your app in the App Store, all you have to do is

```
fastlane appstore
```

## Why fastlane?

 |
-------------- | ----------
✨ | Connect all iOS, Mac, and Android build tools into one workflow
🚝 | Define different `lanes` for App Store deployment, beta builds, or testing
🚢 | Deploy from any computer, including a CI server
🔧 | Extend and customise fastlane to fit your needs
💭 | Never remember any difficult commands, just `fastlane`
🎩 | Easy setup assistant to get started in a few minutes
✉️   | `fastlane` automatically passes information between build steps
📃 | Store **everything** in Git. Never lookup build commands in `Jenkins` configs again
🚀 | Saves you **hours** for every app update you release
✏️ | Flexible configuration using a fully customisable `Fastfile`
🚠 | Implement a fully working Continuous Delivery process
👻 | Integrates with all major CI systems
🐣 | Over 170 built-in integrations available
🖥 | Supports iOS, Mac, and Android apps
🕶 | Full Git and Mercurial support

## Getting Started

Make sure you have the latest version of the Xcode command line tools installed:

```
xcode-select --install
```

### Using the terminal

```
sudo gem install fastlane --verbose
```

Navigate to your iOS or Android app and run

```
fastlane init
```

`fastlane` will automatically detect your project, and ask for any missing information.

For more details about how to get up and running, check out the [fastlane guide](docs/Guide.md).

### Using the Fabric app

If you're not familiar with the terminal and prefer a graphical user interface, download the [Fabric app](https://get.fabric.io/) and use the built-in `fastlane` button.

## Questions and support

All fastlane related questions, problems and feature ideas should be posted as [GitHub issue](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/issues/new). This way, other users can search existing discussions, and everybody can jump in.

## System requirements

`fastlane` requires macOS or Linux with Ruby 2.0.0 or above

## Code of Conduct

Help us keep `fastlane` open and inclusive. Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

> This project and all fastlane tools are in no way affiliated with Apple Inc or Google. This project is open source under the MIT license, which means you have full access to the source code and can modify it to fit your own needs. All fastlane tools run on your own computer or server, so your credentials or other sensitive information will never leave your own computer. You are responsible for how you use fastlane tools.

Commit message:

Update emoji table
The emoji table is the essence of why there are even READMEs. People decide if they want to use the software based on the choice of emojis and how appropriate there are. That's why we have to refine our choices, to become better, until we reach the limit of what you can do with emoji tables.

GitHub emoji table preview is broken (basically not usable now), so you'll have to diff using the raw view

docs/index.md, after:

![img/fastlane_text.png](img/fastlane_text.png)

fastlane
============

[![Twitter: @Fastlane1ols](https://img.shields.io/badge/contact-@FastlaneTools-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://twitter.com/FastlaneTools)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/fastlane.svg?style=flat)](http://rubygems.org/gems/fastlane)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/fastlane/fastlane/master.svg?style=flat)](https://circleci.com/gh/fastlane/fastlane)

`fastlane` is **the** tool to release your iOS and Android app :rocket: It handles all tedious tasks, like generating screenshots, dealing with code signing, and releasing your application.

TODO: Alternative

`fastlane` is a tool for iOS, Mac, and Android developers to automate tedious tasks like generating screenshots, dealing with provisioning profiles, and releasing your application.

You create a so-called `Fastfile` in your repository, that defines how your beta or App Store release process:

```ruby
lane :beta do
  increment_build_number
  gym                       # Build your app
  testflight                # Upload to TestFlight
end

lane :appstore do
  snapshot                  # Generate screenshots for the App Store
  gym                       # Build your app
  deliver                   # Upload the screenshots and the binary to iTunes
  slack                     # Let your team-mates know the new version is live
end
```

You just defined 2 different lanes, one for beta deployment, one for App Store. To release your app in the App Store, all you have to do is

```
fastlane appstore
```

## Why fastlane?

 |
-------------- | ----------
🚀 | Save **hours** every time you push a new release to the store or beta testing service
✨ | Integrates with all your existing tools and services (170 actions currently)
📖 | 100% open source under the MIT license
🎩 | Easy setup assistant to get started in a few minutes
⚒ | Runs on **your** machine, it's your app and your data
👻 | Integrates with all major CI systems
🖥 | Supports iOS, Mac, and Android apps
🔧 | Extend and customise `fastlane` to fit your needs, you're not dependent on anyone
💭 | Never remember any commands any more, just `fastlane`
🚢 | Deploy from any computer, including a CI server

## Getting Started

Make sure you have the latest version of the Xcode command line tools installed:

```
xcode-select --install
```

### Using the terminal

```
sudo gem install fastlane --verbose
```

Navigate to your iOS or Android app and run

```
fastlane init
```

`fastlane` will automatically detect your project, and ask for any missing information.

For more details about how to get up and running, check out the [fastlane guide](docs/Guide.md).

### Using the Fabric app

If you're not familiar with the terminal and prefer a graphical user interface, download the [Fabric app](https://get.fabric.io/) and use the built-in `fastlane` button.

## Questions and support

All fastlane related questions, problems and feature ideas should be posted as [GitHub issue](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/issues/new). This way, other users can search existing discussions, and everybody can jump in.

## System requirements

`fastlane` requires macOS or Linux with Ruby 2.0.0 or above

## Code of Conduct

Help us keep `fastlane` open and inclusive. Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

> This project and all fastlane tools are in no way affiliated with Apple Inc or Google. This project is open source under the MIT license, which means you have full access to the source code and can modify it to fit your own needs. All fastlane tools run on your own computer or server, so your credentials or other sensitive information will never leave your own computer. You are responsible for how you use fastlane tools.
