docs/advanced/fastlane.md, before:

{!docs/includes/setup-fastlane-header.md!}

# fastlane

## Configuring fastlane

### Skip update check when launching _fastlane_

You can set the environment variable `FASTLANE_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK` to skip the update check.

### Hide changelog information at the end of running _fastlane_

You can set the environment variable `FASTLANE_HIDE_CHANGELOG` to hide the detailed changelog information when new _fastlane_ versions are available.

### Output environment variables

- To hide timestamps in each row, set the `FASTLANE_HIDE_TIMESTAMP` environment variable to true (overruled by `--verbose`).
- To output the timezone in the timestamp, set the `FASTLANE_SHOW_TIMEZONE` environment variable to true.
- To disable output formatting, set the `FASTLANE_DISABLE_OUTPUT_FORMAT` environment variable to true.
- To disable warnings about startup time and Gemfile usage, set the `SKIP_SLOW_FASTLANE_WARNING` environment variable to true.
- To disable the plugins summary table printed at the beginning, set the `FASTLANE_HIDE_PLUGINS_TABLE` environment variable to true.
- To disable action summary table output, set the `FASTLANE_SKIP_ACTION_SUMMARY` environment variable to true.

## How fastlane works

### Priorities of parameters and options

The order in which _fastlane_ tools take their values from

1. CLI parameter (e.g. `gym --scheme Example`) or Fastfile (e.g. `gym(scheme: 'Example')`)
1. Environment variable (e.g. `GYM_SCHEME`)
1. Tool specific config file (e.g. `Gymfile` containing `scheme 'Example'`)
1. Default value (which might be taken from the `Appfile`, e.g. `app_identifier` from the `Appfile`)
1. If this value is required, you'll be asked for it (e.g. you have multiple schemes, you'll be asked for it)

### Directory behavior

_fastlane_ was designed in a way that you can run _fastlane_ from both the root directory of the project, and from the `./fastlane` sub-folder.

Take this example `Fastfile` on the path `fastlane/Fastfile`
```ruby
sh "pwd" # => "[root]/fastlane"
puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]/fastlane"

lane :something do
  sh "pwd" # => "[root]/fastlane"
  puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]/fastlane"

  my_action
end
```

The implementation of `my_action` looks like this:
```ruby
def run(params)
  puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]"
end
```

Notice how every action and every plugin's code runs in the root of the project, while all user code from the `Fastfile` runs inside the `./fastlane` directory. This is important to consider when migrating existing code from your `Fastfile` into your own action or plugin. To change the directory manually you can use standard Ruby blocks:

```ruby
Dir.chdir("..") do
  # code here runs in the parent directory
end
```

This behavior isn't great, and has been like this since the very early days of _fastlane_. As much as we'd like to change it, there is no good way to do so, without breaking thousands of production setups, so we decided to keep it as is for now.

## Passing parameters to _fastlane_ command line tools

_fastlane_ contains several command line tools, e.g. [`fastlane deliver`](/actions/deliver/) or [`fastlane snapshot`](/actions/snapshot/). To pass parameters to these tools, append the option names and values as you would for a normal shell command:

```shell
fastlane [tool] --[option]=[value]

fastlane deliver --skip_screenshots=true
fastlane snapshot --screenshots_path=xxxxx --schema=xxxx
```

Commit message:

add note about FASTLANE_HIDE_GITHUB_ISSUES (#1295)

docs/advanced/fastlane.md, after:

{!docs/includes/setup-fastlane-header.md!}

# fastlane

## Configuring fastlane

### Skip update check when launching _fastlane_

You can set the environment variable `FASTLANE_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK` to skip the update check.

### Hide changelog information at the end of running _fastlane_

You can set the environment variable `FASTLANE_HIDE_CHANGELOG` to hide the detailed changelog information when new _fastlane_ versions are available.

### Prevent _fastlane_ from checking for related GitHub issues during an issue

You can set the environment variable `FASTLANE_HIDE_GITHUB_ISSUES` to hide the related GitHub issues suggestions when an error occurs.

### Output environment variables

- To hide timestamps in each row, set the `FASTLANE_HIDE_TIMESTAMP` environment variable to true (overruled by `--verbose`).
- To output the timezone in the timestamp, set the `FASTLANE_SHOW_TIMEZONE` environment variable to true.
- To disable output formatting, set the `FASTLANE_DISABLE_OUTPUT_FORMAT` environment variable to true.
- To disable warnings about startup time and Gemfile usage, set the `SKIP_SLOW_FASTLANE_WARNING` environment variable to true.
- To disable the plugins summary table printed at the beginning, set the `FASTLANE_HIDE_PLUGINS_TABLE` environment variable to true.
- To disable action summary table output, set the `FASTLANE_SKIP_ACTION_SUMMARY` environment variable to true.

## How fastlane works

### Priorities of parameters and options

The order in which _fastlane_ tools take their values from

1. CLI parameter (e.g. `gym --scheme Example`) or Fastfile (e.g. `gym(scheme: 'Example')`)
1. Environment variable (e.g. `GYM_SCHEME`)
1. Tool specific config file (e.g. `Gymfile` containing `scheme 'Example'`)
1. Default value (which might be taken from the `Appfile`, e.g. `app_identifier` from the `Appfile`)
1. If this value is required, you'll be asked for it (e.g. you have multiple schemes, you'll be asked for it)

### Directory behavior

_fastlane_ was designed in a way that you can run _fastlane_ from both the root directory of the project, and from the `./fastlane` sub-folder.

Take this example `Fastfile` on the path `fastlane/Fastfile`
```ruby
sh "pwd" # => "[root]/fastlane"
puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]/fastlane"

lane :something do
  sh "pwd" # => "[root]/fastlane"
  puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]/fastlane"

  my_action
end
```

The implementation of `my_action` looks like this:
```ruby
def run(params)
  puts Dir.pwd # => "[root]"
end
```

Notice how every action and every plugin's code runs in the root of the project, while all user code from the `Fastfile` runs inside the `./fastlane` directory. This is important to consider when migrating existing code from your `Fastfile` into your own action or plugin. To change the directory manually you can use standard Ruby blocks:

```ruby
Dir.chdir("..") do
  # code here runs in the parent directory
end
```

This behavior isn't great, and has been like this since the very early days of _fastlane_. As much as we'd like to change it, there is no good way to do so, without breaking thousands of production setups, so we decided to keep it as is for now.

## Passing parameters to _fastlane_ command line tools

_fastlane_ contains several command line tools, e.g. [`fastlane deliver`](/actions/deliver/) or [`fastlane snapshot`](/actions/snapshot/). To pass parameters to these tools, append the option names and values as you would for a normal shell command:

```shell
fastlane [tool] --[option]=[value]

fastlane deliver --skip_screenshots=true
fastlane snapshot --screenshots_path=xxxxx --schema=xxxx
```
